README.md, before:


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/GUDHI/gudhi-devel.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/GUDHI/gudhi-devel)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/tree/master)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/976j2uut8xgalvx2/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/branch/master)
[![Anaconda Cloud](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi/badges/version.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi)
[![Anaconda downloads](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi/badges/downloads.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi)


![GUDHI](src/common/doc/Gudhi_banner.png "Topological Data Analysis (TDA) and Higher Dimensional Geometry Understanding")

The GUDHI library is a generic open source C++ library, with a Python interface, for Topological Data Analysis (TDA) and Higher Dimensional Geometry Understanding. The library offers state-of-the-art data structures and algorithms to construct simplicial complexes and compute persistent homology.

# Source code

We recommend that users get official releases from [the GUDHI website](https://gudhi.inria.fr/).

For potential contributors, to fully checkout GUDHI, after cloning the git repository, you may also need to checkout its submodules using
```sh
git submodule update --init
```

# Compilation and installation

To install GUDHI, you can follow the [C++ compilation procedure](https://gudhi.inria.fr/doc/latest/installation.html), the [Python compilation procedure](https://gudhi.inria.fr/python/latest/installation.html), use our [conda-forge package](https://gudhi.inria.fr/conda/), or [go with Docker](https://gudhi.inria.fr/dockerfile/).

# More information

* [The GUDHI website](https://gudhi.inria.fr/)
* [Contact us](https://gudhi.inria.fr/contact/)
* [Subscribe to the GUDHI users mailing list](https://gudhi.inria.fr/keepintouch/)
* [Tutorials](https://gudhi.inria.fr/tutorials/)

Commit message:

[skip ci] Replace travis badge with azure one

README.md, after:


[![OSx on Azure](https://dev.azure.com/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/_apis/build/status/GUDHI.gudhi-devel?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/_build/latest?definitionId=1&branchName=master)
[![Linux on CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/tree/master)
[![Win on Appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/976j2uut8xgalvx2/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/GUDHI/gudhi-devel/branch/master)
[![Anaconda Cloud](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi/badges/version.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi)
[![Anaconda downloads](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi/badges/downloads.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/gudhi)


![GUDHI](src/common/doc/Gudhi_banner.png "Topological Data Analysis (TDA) and Higher Dimensional Geometry Understanding")

The GUDHI library is a generic open source C++ library, with a Python interface, for Topological Data Analysis (TDA) and Higher Dimensional Geometry Understanding. The library offers state-of-the-art data structures and algorithms to construct simplicial complexes and compute persistent homology.

# Source code

We recommend that users get official releases from [the GUDHI website](https://gudhi.inria.fr/).

For potential contributors, to fully checkout GUDHI, after cloning the git repository, you may also need to checkout its submodules using
```sh
git submodule update --init
```

# Compilation and installation

To install GUDHI, you can follow the [C++ compilation procedure](https://gudhi.inria.fr/doc/latest/installation.html), the [Python compilation procedure](https://gudhi.inria.fr/python/latest/installation.html), use our [conda-forge package](https://gudhi.inria.fr/conda/), or [go with Docker](https://gudhi.inria.fr/dockerfile/).

# More information

* [The GUDHI website](https://gudhi.inria.fr/)
* [Contact us](https://gudhi.inria.fr/contact/)
* [Subscribe to the GUDHI users mailing list](https://gudhi.inria.fr/keepintouch/)
* [Tutorials](https://gudhi.inria.fr/tutorials/)
