src/python/doc/persistence_graphical_tools_user.rst, before:

:orphan:

.. To get rid of WARNING: document isn't included in any toctree

Persistence graphical tools user manual
=======================================
Definition
----------
.. include:: persistence_graphical_tools_sum.inc


Show persistence as a barcode
-----------------------------

This function can display the persistence result as a barcode:

.. plot::
   :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi

    off_file = gudhi.__root_source_dir__ + '/data/points/tore3D_300.off'
    point_cloud = gudhi.read_points_from_off_file(off_file=off_file)

    rips_complex = gudhi.RipsComplex(points=point_cloud, max_edge_length=0.7)
    simplex_tree = rips_complex.create_simplex_tree(max_dimension=3)
    diag = simplex_tree.persistence(min_persistence=0.4)

    gudhi.plot_persistence_barcode(diag)
    plt.show()

Show persistence as a diagram
-----------------------------

This function can display the persistence result as a diagram:

.. plot::
   :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi

    # rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers obtained from write_persistence_diagram method
    persistence_file=gudhi.__root_source_dir__ + \
        '/data/persistence_diagram/rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers'
    ax = gudhi.plot_persistence_diagram(persistence_file=persistence_file,
        legend=True)
    # We can modify the title, aspect, etc.
    ax.set_title("Persistence diagram of a torus")
    ax.set_aspect("equal")  # forces to be square shaped
    plt.show()

Note that (as barcode and density) it can also take a simple `np.array` 
of shape (N x 2) encoding a persistence diagram (in a given dimension).

.. plot::
    :include-source:
    
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi
    import numpy as np
    d = np.array([[0, 1], [1, 2], [1, np.inf]])
    gudhi.plot_persistence_diagram(d)
    plt.show()

Persistence density
-------------------

:Requires: `SciPy <installation.html#scipy>`_

If you want more information on a specific dimension, for instance:

.. plot::
   :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi
    # rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers obtained from write_persistence_diagram method
    persistence_file=gudhi.__root_source_dir__ + \
        '/data/persistence_diagram/rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers'
    birth_death = gudhi.read_persistence_intervals_in_dimension(
        persistence_file=persistence_file,
        only_this_dim=1)
    pers_diag = [(1, elt) for elt in birth_death]
    # Use subplots to display diagram and density side by side
    fig, axes = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=2, figsize=(12, 5))
    gudhi.plot_persistence_diagram(persistence=pers_diag,
        axes=axes[0])
    gudhi.plot_persistence_density(persistence=pers_diag,
        dimension=1, legend=True, axes=axes[1])
    plt.show()

LaTeX support
-------------

By default, persistence graphical tools are using LaTeX support for matplotlib if available (cf.
`matplotlib text rendering with LaTeX <https://matplotlib.org/3.3.0/tutorials/text/usetex.html>`_).
It also requires `type1cm` LaTeX package (not detected by matplotlib).

If you are facing issues with LaTeX rendering, you can still deactivate LaTeX rendering by saying:

.. code-block:: python

    import gudhi
    gudhi.persistence_graphical_tools._gudhi_matplotlib_use_tex=False

Commit message:

doc review: specify the error and indicate what to install on Ubuntu

src/python/doc/persistence_graphical_tools_user.rst, after:

:orphan:

.. To get rid of WARNING: document isn't included in any toctree

Persistence graphical tools user manual
=======================================
Definition
----------
.. include:: persistence_graphical_tools_sum.inc


Show persistence as a barcode
-----------------------------

This function can display the persistence result as a barcode:

.. plot::
   :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi

    off_file = gudhi.__root_source_dir__ + '/data/points/tore3D_300.off'
    point_cloud = gudhi.read_points_from_off_file(off_file=off_file)

    rips_complex = gudhi.RipsComplex(points=point_cloud, max_edge_length=0.7)
    simplex_tree = rips_complex.create_simplex_tree(max_dimension=3)
    diag = simplex_tree.persistence(min_persistence=0.4)

    gudhi.plot_persistence_barcode(diag)
    plt.show()

Show persistence as a diagram
-----------------------------

This function can display the persistence result as a diagram:

.. plot::
   :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi

    # rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers obtained from write_persistence_diagram method
    persistence_file=gudhi.__root_source_dir__ + \
        '/data/persistence_diagram/rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers'
    ax = gudhi.plot_persistence_diagram(persistence_file=persistence_file,
        legend=True)
    # We can modify the title, aspect, etc.
    ax.set_title("Persistence diagram of a torus")
    ax.set_aspect("equal")  # forces to be square shaped
    plt.show()

Note that (as barcode and density) it can also take a simple `np.array` 
of shape (N x 2) encoding a persistence diagram (in a given dimension).

.. plot::
    :include-source:
    
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi
    import numpy as np
    d = np.array([[0, 1], [1, 2], [1, np.inf]])
    gudhi.plot_persistence_diagram(d)
    plt.show()

Persistence density
-------------------

:Requires: `SciPy <installation.html#scipy>`_

If you want more information on a specific dimension, for instance:

.. plot::
   :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import gudhi
    # rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers obtained from write_persistence_diagram method
    persistence_file=gudhi.__root_source_dir__ + \
        '/data/persistence_diagram/rips_on_tore3D_1307.pers'
    birth_death = gudhi.read_persistence_intervals_in_dimension(
        persistence_file=persistence_file,
        only_this_dim=1)
    pers_diag = [(1, elt) for elt in birth_death]
    # Use subplots to display diagram and density side by side
    fig, axes = plt.subplots(nrows=1, ncols=2, figsize=(12, 5))
    gudhi.plot_persistence_diagram(persistence=pers_diag,
        axes=axes[0])
    gudhi.plot_persistence_density(persistence=pers_diag,
        dimension=1, legend=True, axes=axes[1])
    plt.show()

LaTeX support
-------------

By default, persistence graphical tools are using LaTeX support for matplotlib if available (cf.
`matplotlib text rendering with LaTeX <https://matplotlib.org/3.3.0/tutorials/text/usetex.html>`_).
It also requires `type1cm` LaTeX package (not detected by matplotlib).

If you are facing issues with LaTeX rendering, like this one:

.. code-block:: none

    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/matplotlib/texmanager.py", line 302, in _run_checked_subprocess
        report = subprocess.check_output(command,
    ...
    ! LaTeX Error: File `type1cm.sty' not found.
    ...

This is because the LaTeX package is not installed on your system. On Ubuntu systems you can install texlive-full
(for all LaTeX packages), or more specific packages like texlive-latex-extra, cm-super.

You can still deactivate LaTeX rendering by saying:

.. code-block:: python

    import gudhi
    gudhi.persistence_graphical_tools._gudhi_matplotlib_use_tex=False
